I wanna talk to you about activists,
cuz it's something that you brought up earlier saying that you, you, you know,
you find them unappealing,
like I wanna know what you think the motivation of,
uh, a lot of these like particularly radical left-wing activists that wanna shut
down lectures and scream people down and you know, and these, uh, auditoriums,
what do you think the motivation of these people is? And what do you,
what do you think is the root of it?
Well, I think that it's a quick root to moral virtue. You know,
like it's actually really hard to put yourself together and you have to do that
in ways that you can't Trump. It, you know,
because most of the things that are wrong with you are kind of low.
What would you call it? Second rate and embarrassing.
You're all your stupid little habits and your proclivity to procrastinate and
all the things that you're minorly ashamed of.
And then you have to work on those slowly because you're the probability that
you're gonna be able to fix them quickly is low.
And you can't really brag about it because it's so embarrassing just to admit
that they exist to begin with it.
You can hardly brag about it and it's sort of painstaking private work and you,
you, you, you don't get a lot of social.
You don't get a lot of quick social status for it.
It it's effortful embarrassing, humbling, and difficult.
And then you can do thing like being activist and you get all that public
acclaim for being on the good side with no effort whatsoever.
And so it's a plus.
Do you think that there's any motivation at all to try to make the world a
better place? Yes.
I think there's some.
You think that's, that's part of it. Sure. Well,
you think it's flavored by this desire to broadcast your
virtue?
Yes. Because it's very difficult to make the world a better place. You know,
that's the thing is no, I mean,
young people have a messianic impulse.
That's another thing that was documented by PJ that, that there's a stage,
you know, and laid adolescents where you wanna make the world a better place.
And I would say that's probably part of the impulse to, you know,
establish a permanent relationship and have a family and, and,
and take care of people, you know, and, and,
and to take on some of the burden of life. It's,
it's the psychological precursor to that.
And it's reasonable for smart young people to be concerned about
broader philoso issues if they tilt in that direction as well.
But it's all too easy for that to be pathologized into
resentment for,
for those who seem to have more unfairly and also to take the easy route
out. And there aren't easy route,
there are only difficult route to doing useful things.
And it's better just to do that. And then,
so I think that there's some impulse to, you know,
there's some wish that things could be less unfair and that fewer people could
suffer,
but it's kind of a low level virtue that that reflects of compassion.
You know, I, I'm not saying it's it's without merit because it's the,
that compassion is the basis for the ability to take care of,
of people who are ill and, and, and infants and.
Feel this low level. Like where is that? It's not.
Thought through things are complicated. It's hard to,
it's hard to make complicated systems work better, and it's really easy to.
Make them work worse.
What about activists that want to shut down certain speakers?
Like someone who's, uh, in my opinion, uh, fairly innocuous,
uh, in, in terms of the, the ne like here's one Christina Hoff summers. I just,
I don't see a good argument for shutting her down. She's so polite.
She's a feminist she's well read. Yeah. She's a, a really nice person. It just.
Yeah, Janice FKO is like that too. In the Canada.
Same sort of person doesn't make sense that people would shout her down yet.
They do. Oh yeah. They, they shout her down. They say horrible things about her.
They mischaracterize her in a,
a really brutal way that it,
it completely invalidates their argument or their opposition to her,
to anyone that's paying attention to what she said, oh.
Well, a lot of it who she is,
a lot of it is a lot of it is also just immature acting out. Yes. You know,
and there's an arrogance time it's tolerated.
In some sort of very strange way. Yeah.
Yeah. It is. It is. It is. Well, yeah, it, it's,
it's part of our doubt, I suppose,
about authority and about its and our,
our willingness to assume that all authority is contaminated by power.
It's like it sanctioned heckling too. Yeah. It's almost like, like you,
if you're doing a play, you know, or a musical or you're singing a song,
someone just decides to start screaming out. Well that person's an,
but you're a espousing an opinion. Yeah.
And that person decides to scream out and they,
they do so under the guise of moral virtue. Yeah.
Yeah. Well unrated, undeserved access to power. Yes.
You know,
and it's no wonder that the radical leftists in particular concentrate on power,
everything's about power. Well then it's okay.
If they use power as part of their means of expression, it's like, well,
you're just playing power games. It's perfectly reasonable,
even appropriate for me to play power games because, you know, I'm,
I oppressed compared to you, if everything's power, then everybody gets to yell.
Right. And there's no,
one of the things I realized about about recently as well is that there
isn't a debate about free speech, exact not the way that we think about it,
you know, you know, because the there's the classical defensive free speech.
So the classical defensive free speech is that it's better for both of us.
If we're able to exchange our opinions because I have the opportunity to learn
from you and you have the opportunity to learn from me and you have the
opportunity to learn from your own mistakes and, and social feedback.
And so do I and negotiation beats war. Okay.
So that's kind of the classical now, but that's predicated on some assumptions.
And those are, you are an autonomous being.
You're capable of formulating an opinion that that's actually unique to you.
And that in dialogue,
we can mutually modify each other's unique opinions in a way that produces
a mutually harmonious and beneficial outcome. That's all the predicate. Well,
the, the people who are opposed to free speech, you see,
it's not that they trying to shut down people whose opinions are different than
theirs. Exactly.
It's that they're opposed to the idea that free speech exists.
It's a way deeper problem because at the bottom of the postmodernist mess
is the following assumption. Is that well there's no,
there's no one way of in you're in interacting with the world.
That's preferable to any other way.
And so what people do is organize themselves into hierarchies of power and then
struggle for dominance within the hierarchies.
And then the hierarchies struggle between each other.
So it's a landscape of waring hierarchies. That's all it is.
And you think that you're a person and that you have an opinion, but you're not.
You're just the mouthpiece of your privileged hierarchy.
And so am I. And so, and it's incommensurate.
If we're from different hierarchies, there, isn't a, you talking to a,
me that could come to an agreement.
There's just you acting as a mouthpiece for your power and me acting as a
mouthpiece for my power. And so since I'm part of my group and wanna win,
because it's all about power, then why the hell would I ever want you to talk?
It's not like I have anything to learn from you.
Or even that learning is possible. Or,
or even that there are two people having a discussion.
There's nothing but the mouthpiece of power,
there's two mouth pieces of power worrying. And so that,
why should I listen to you? I'll just shut you down cuz then I win. Mm.
And so this,
this free speech debate isn't about who sh whose opinion should be
allowed within, you know, an overarching framework where free speech is,
is a real thing.
It's a debate about whether there's such a thing as free speech at all. The,
the radical postmodernist types deny even that there's such a thing as an
autonomous individual in any way, you're just the,
you're just the nexus of economic forces, economic and social forces.
You're entirely socially constructed. There's no, you,
these are deep criticisms. Like I've,
I've made this case before that the postmodern types,
although they have to ally them cells with the Marxist for,
for reasons that we don't have to go into,
they are going after things that are so fundamental. You can't believe it.
They don't. There is no autonomous individual in the postmodern world.
That's a,
that's a modernist or an enlightenment viewpoint that's or a Christian viewpoint
or a Judeo-Christian viewpoint,
or maybe an Abraham real religion viewpoint who the hell knows it might be that,
that, that deep you're the nexus of sociological forces.
There's no integrated self. You don't have ideas or opinions.
And there's no dialogue between us that doesn't exist.
There's your group, your identity, your struggle for power.
And that's all, this is your interpretation of it. No,
is this so you have a spouse. No, no, this is,
this is the fundamental essence of postmodernism,
especially it's especially true in the format espoused by DDA.
And Fuco Fuco, everything's about power.
Every everything's about power and Deda was definitely,
that's why he criticized the idea of logo.
Centrism logos is that ability of the individual to engage in dialogue
lo root for dialogue is logos or logic. That's all criticized.
That's all gone. The identity politics players, the serious,
the people who are serious about this philoso,
they don't believe in the idea of the autonomous individual that's gone.
So it's not like they're playing a game within, you know, you think, well,
this is a game. We're all playing a game where we agree on some things. And,
and we're just disagreeing about the details. It's like, oh no, no, no, no.
You don't wanna make that mistake. This, this critique is way,
way deeper than that,
which is why Deda was opposed to the idea of logo centrism.
He didn't believe in the idea of an autonomous individual that didn't exist.
That's just a fiction set up by those who have used the idea of the autonomous
individual to advance their power maneuvering within the
confines of the colonialist, the colonialist west.